The Metasploit Framework
Working with public exploits
can often be difficult.
They must be modified to fit each scenario
and tested for malicious code.
Each exploit uses a unique
command-line syntax,
and there is no standardization
in coding practices or languages.
In addition, there are a variety of
post-exploitation tools,
auxiliary tools, and numerous attack
techniques that must be considered
in even the most basic attack scenarios.
Exploit frameworks aim to address
some or all of these issues.
Although they vary somewhat
in form and function,
each framework aims to consolidate and
streamline the process of exploitation
by offering a variety of exploits,
simplifying the usage of these exploits,
easing lateral movement,
and assisting with the management
of compromised infrastructure.
Most of these frameworks offer
dynamic payload capabilities,
which means that for each exploit
in the framework,
we can choose various
payloads to deploy.
Over the past few years, several
exploit and post-exploitation
frameworks have been developed.
While many of these frameworks
are commercial offerings,
the Metasploit Framework is open-source,
and is the focus of this module.
The project initially started off
as a portable network game
and has evolved into a powerful
tool for penetration testing,
exploit development, and
vulnerability research.
Newcomers to the Metasploit
Framework are often overwhelmed
by the multitude of features
and use-cases it offers.
The Metasploit Framework is valuable in
almost every phase of a penetration test,
including passive and active
information gathering,
vulnerability research and development,
client-side attacks, post-exploitation,
and much more.
With such overwhelming capability,
it’s easy to get lost.
Fortunately, Metasploit
is well-thought-out
and offers a unified
and sensible interface.
In this module, we will provide a
walkthrough of the Metasploit Framework,
including features and usage along with
some explanation of its inner workings.